[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
This book that you've
written, it does a beautiful
job of how we have come,
as governments and citizens,
to view and embrace and react
to this whole phenomena.
>>PAOLA HARRIS: "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind"
came out, and Francois
Truffaut played Jacques Vallee.
>>REGINA: Jacques Vallee.
>>JACQUES VALLEE: The secret
was kept by the government,
and the secret was
kept by the witnesses.
>>REGINA: These little kids
would come and get an ice cream
cone, not knowing that
these men with briefcases
were people like
Oppenheimer, and they
weren't even worthy of
warning that this blast was
going to take place.
>>VALLEE: And that
lasted 70 years.
The bomb turned out to be four
times more powerful than all
the calculations they had made.
>>HARRIS: There were no
flying saucer magazines.
Kenneth Arnold hadn't come
out with that word yet.
There was no context to
what they were looking at,
and it was not a flying saucer.
It was an avocado-shaped craft.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: I am not
a whistleblower.
I'm a very
disciplined scientist.
That's why I'm--
>>REGINA: Yes. you're not
a conspiracy theorist.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VALLEE: It strikes me
that all the attention
is, what is the government
going to reveal to us.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: My approach, I
don't think you should wait
for the government--
>>REGINA: No, I--
>>VALLEE: --to tell
you what's going on.
>>REGINA: The 20th anniversary
of the Disclosure Project
passed recently.
And as UFO researchers and
enthusiasts looked back
on how the subject
is being handled,
we realized not
much has changed.
By that, I mean that the US
government has done little
to inform the public about
UFOs and potential contact.
But it's starting.
Today, we're going back
to 1945 and a case that
should have been as
well known as Roswell,
but is just now
being fully revealed.
It shows the mystery
and challenge
in deconstructing the UFO story.
And we have a very
special guest with us,
Jacques Vallee, and
Paola Harris, who
have come together as a team.
And I have to say this
for our audience, Jacques.
You're a bit like a unicorn.
Everybody has heard of
you, but nobody ever
gets to nail you down in a seat
and talk to you personally.
>>VALLEE: Right.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I love it.
So let me just inform
everybody of a little bit
of your background that
they may not know about.
Besides the researching
aspect in UFOs,
you're an academic, hard core.
Mathematics, astrophysics,
first to use computer modeling
to map Mars.
And I'm doing this
quickly just to say, look,
this is who he is.
And an early developer
in AI in Silicon Valley.
You continue to this day
to work in Silicon Valley
technologically, and then
as a venture capitalist.
But that's the one
side of your life.
That's your day job.
The other side of your life
is you, as a young one,
had your own experiences
and began a deep curiosity,
looking from an academic
lens at the UFO phenomena.
Because of Jacques's
incredible background,
you've had access to entities,
such as governmental agencies
and such most people in this
field never get access to.
So I consider you to have
a very unique perspective
on this phenomena, in general.
And we-- of course,
everybody knows Paola.
Paola has been
with us, and she's
the backbone of so
many of the contacts
that we have here
at Gaia that are now
coming out into the public
eye, or through you,
or through Paola.
So I love the fact
that the two of you,
with your unique ways
of approaching life,
have come together to
do this, because it
really rings to something
larger in terms of ways
to analyze information and data.
So I've laid it out.
Here everybody is.
We're all together.
Your lives intersected with
a man named Allen Hynek,
in terms of both having contact
early on in the days that
were now put onto
fictional renditions
on History Channel in
"Project Blue Book."
Anybody can go watch that.
This is a real person.
You're a real person
who was with him.
I want to ask each
of you, let's go back
into the days of the
'60s with Allen Hynek.
And how you were involved
with them and then
how you were involved
with them, and why this
is important to this story.
>>VALLEE: I-- some of my
education was in France.
I was recruited by
Paris Observatory,
in the first team that
did satellite tracking
in French science.
I quickly realized that UFOs
were an unsolved problem.
Actually, unsolved
and unresearched,
because everybody
was afraid of rocking
the boat about the
theories that existed.
And I became aware of the work
that had been done in the US.
Of course, American science is
a model for European science,
in many ways.
And I was recruited to work
at the University of Texas,
where I had access to records.
I had access to a computer,
in a much more open way
than I did in France, to study
UFOs alongside the astronomical
work I was doing.
And then, through that
work, I met Dr. Hynek
and moved to Northwestern
University in Chicago.
And worked, actually, with
him pretty much day to day
for about five years, and--
>>REGINA: And this
was while he was
doing his research for the
US military and intelligence
agencies, right?
>>VALLEE: Well, he was
the scientific consultant
to Project Blue Book, which
was the Air Force project
to study reports
from the public.
Mostly from the public, but
also from the armed forces.
And try to see if there
was a scientific value
to those observations.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: And I was
bringing the databases
from the European
side that I had
been studying for many years,
and starting to apply computer
science research to this.
So I don't think
that, in my case,
you can say that I have these
two sides, the serious side
and then the UFO.
>>REGINA: They're merged.
>>VALLEE: And Silicon
Valley does many things.
One of my friends is
Federico Faggin, a physicist,
an Italian physicist
in Silicon Valley,
who was very instrumental
in semiconductor research.
Actually, he invented
the first chip,
if you want to call it that way.
And we had that discussion.
And he said, when we
stop looking at things
we don't understand,
like UFOs, we
might as well sell Silicon
Valley to the Japanese
or to some other nation.
>>REGINA: That is so true.
>>VALLEE: This is what we do.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: It's not
today's technology.
It's, what are the
challenges that
will get us to stay at the
frontier of technology.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And I was doing an interview
with someone recently,
and they were talking about
the world of settled science.
Well, you don't go on beyond the
parameters of settled science.
And I said, are you kidding me?
The one thing science
should never be is settled.
Science is constant
inquiry and growing.
And the fact that you
say, this is really
what Silicon Valley is about,
for all the good it brings
and all the
challenges it brings.
>>VALLEE: Early in
the 20th century,
some philosophers said that
essentially, all of science
had been discovered.
And that the future
generation of scientists,
which add the next decimal
point, the next decimal place,
to the constants that
had been measured--
>>REGINA: How arrogant.
[LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: The speed of light,
all those things were known.
>>REGINA: Just
another decimal point.
>>VALLEE: That you just needed
a little bit more precision.
And then after that, there
was quantum mechanics,
there was relativity,
there was--
>>REGINA: And on
and on to today.
>>VALLEE: Everything else, yes.
>>REGINA: And you, dealing
with AI, know some--
that would be another,
entirely different interview
to look at--
I'd love to talk
to you, separately
from this story one day, about
AI and where you see it going,
OK?
But we're not going
to do that right now.
So you became involved with
Allen during this period.
And I highly recommend
anybody, just for kicks,
go watch the fictitious version.
Go watch "Project Blue Book."
Because his son, Paul Hynek,
was actually a consultant to it.
There are some real-- they're
dealing with real cases.
They just put little spins on
it and have sexy Russian spies
and things.
But it gives you an idea
of what he was up to
and how it gets spun.
So Paola, now, how did
you initially end up
with Allen Hynek?
>>HARRIS: Well, I was teaching
high school here in Colorado.
And they gave me a class
called Science Fiction.
I have a master's in
education, and I've
taught English for 40 years.
And so "Close Encounters of
the Third Kind" came out,
and Jacques came on.
[LAUGHTER]
It was around the character
of the French scientist.
Francois Truffaut
played Jacques Vallee.
>>REGINA: Jacques Vallee.
>>HARRIS: The irony is, I
never met Jacques Vallee.
What I decided to do
was go to the Center
for UFO Studies in
Evanston, Illinois.
And that was the
time that Allen began
his own group, which was
Center of UFO Studies, CUFOS,
and I walked into the
offices to see if what
I had seen on screen was real.
And the secretary
knew I spoke Italian.
And I thought I'd never see
Dr. Hynek in a million years.
But sure enough, from
around the corner
came this man with a
white goatee and a pipe.
And he came over
and he said, oh.
He said, you speak Italian?
You're visiting?
And I said yes.
And he said, would you be
willing to work with me?
He said, because I have
boxes of Italian sightings.
I have all kinds of work
that needs to be done.
And he came to Boulder
several times to visit me.
But mostly, he sent
me all the sightings
and bought me a typewriter.
In those days, we
had typewriters.
>>REGINA: You had typewriters.
>>VALLEE: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
Note to self.
>>HARRIS: But I never knew
Jacques, in my wildest dreams.
I knew that he was a
venture capitalist.
So it wasn't until
four years ago
that he was working on a case,
and I was working on a case,
and we came together to do this.
But all the time, that film
really affected me emotionally,
especially--
>>REGINA: Everybody.
>>VALLEE: --at the very end,
when Francois Truffaut has
the encounter with the beings.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you for that.
And how do you say
"meant to be" in French?
When something
something's meant to be?
>>VALLEE: [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: It was written--
>>REGINA: It is written.
It is written.
>>VALLEE: --in the universe.
>>HARRIS: It's
written in the stars.
>>REGINA: It was
written in the--
so it was written
in the stars for you
to be there at that
moment to run into Allen.
And the reality is that
the Italian military and
intelligence communities
have always taken this
more seriously and have been a
little more forthcoming than we
have in the US.
So I can see where that
would have added greatly
to the body of knowledge
he was studying.
>>HARRIS: Yes, and in the--
we must add,
though, that there's
more of a vested interest
in keeping it secret here,
I think.
It's--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: I think that
all over the world--
when Jacques was younger,
they were interested in France
in this.
And in Italy, we were
always interested.
I lived there for many years.
And the conversation,
I think one
of the things that
brings us together
is that we're both European.
And we have a lot of
conversations about the world
view, the world view--
>>REGINA: Right.
And that's what--
>>HARRIS: On UFOs.
>>REGINA: And I have to say,
this book you've written,
"Trinity-- the Best-Kept
Secret," it really
does a beautiful job
of your articulation
of how we have come as
governments and citizens
to view and embrace and react
to this whole phenomena.
And it's so elegantly
written, I have to say.
People need to read this book.
It's very well done.
Because we're still not
looking at the big picture.
Everybody writes their little
books about their piece,
but they're not looking
at the overview of it.
>>VALLEE: What strikes
me in the current debate,
which is becoming more and
more active, and of course,
there may be a report from
the government, from the Navy,
about the current state of
the phenomenon and government
reaction to it--
>>REGINA: Supposedly.
>>VALLEE: What strikes me
is that all the attention,
everything you see
on TV and so on,
is what is the government
going to reveal to us.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: Now, my
approach isn't that.
I think-- I don't think you
should wait for the government
to tell you what's going on.
>>REGINA: Hallelujah.
>>HARRIS: Your neighbors
have seen UFOs.
[LAUGHTER]
In this case, I have
a colleague who says,
well, you had some clearances
along the way when you worked
on space projects and so on.
But you'll never
have the clearances
it takes to know what's really
going on in a case like this,
in the Manhattan Project.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: And my response is,
I don't need the clearances.
I have the witnesses.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: These two
little kids were there.
The government wasn't there.
These two little kids
were there on the spot
when the thing crashed.
It actually didn't crash.
It crash landed.
It was under power.
It didn't break apart.
And the entire
thing was recovered.
It's incredible.
So Lamar and Paola
had been researching
this for four or five years.
>>REGINA: Oh, well, you're in
your 12th year or something
by now.
>>VALLEE: For four
or five years before.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>VALLEE: Now, I came in because
I had been looking at other
cases in New Mexico, and--
>>REGINA: Sorocco and--
>>VALLEE: A friend
of mine knew one
of the witnesses, who by then
was in his late 70s and 80s,
and wanting to
introduce me to him.
And then I discovered that
Paola had already done research
with that witness,
so we combined
the information we had.
And then we went back to the
site, and that was the story.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And Paola-- I mean,
Paola hears something.
She says, I'm on my way.
She's just like Indiana
Jones when it comes to--
>>HARRIS: Well--
>>REGINA: When there's field
research and people who are
ready to talk, or there's
evidence somewhere--
>>HARRIS: I have to get there--
>>REGINA: You have to
get there immediately.
>>HARRIS: --because
even with this case,
Jacques, what had
happened is that I got
to the six-year-old, Reme Baca.
Thank God I got to
interview him in Washington,
because he passed away.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: And we needed to get
the two sides of the story.
Jacques read Reme's book, so
he was able to get Reme's.
But when he was doing the book,
he needed the other witness.
He needed the six-year-old.
We had the nine-year-old.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: And I realized that--
>>REGINA: He had become seven
by the time this happened, yeah.
>>HARRIS: And what had happened
is that we need both sides.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: And even
though they weren't
living in the same
place, field research--
and I've enjoyed
doing it with Jacques,
because we keep
going down there.
I don't enjoy the snakes,
and I don't enjoy--
[LAUGHTER]
I don't.
He likes Mexican food
better than I do.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>HARRIS: But--
>>REGINA: Because you're
hanging out in some-- well,
there aren't a lot of
options when you're out there
in New Mexico in the desert.
>>HARRIS: Well, no.
This is desert, high desert.
And then we even
went to Ground Zero.
Because ironically--
you might want
to talk about the impression.
We went to Ground Zero where the
actual bomb was exploded, but--
>>REGINA: We are going
to talk about that.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
It does do something to you.
It does.
It shows the background of
what these little boys lived
through.
But you mentioned my way
of dealing with life.
Yes, I'm a field researcher.
I don't sit at home, take a
telephone, talk to people.
I have to go there.
>>REGINA: You've got to go.
>>HARRIS: I have to go there.
And then--
>>REGINA: You and I have
been on our own adventures.
We went to Sardinia
and so forth.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so I
know how you work.
You get out there, you roll
your sleeves up, and you dig in.
You dig in to wherever the
evidence and research is,
and I totally admire
that about you.
And so what I'd like
to do now is now
we're getting into the book, OK?
We're going to get
into this story,
and we're going to go
back to that fateful day
when the world changed, when the
first atomic blast took place
in New Mexico,
this Trinity site.
And the thing-- there
are a few things
I'd like to say to set this up.
The Native people
who lived there,
these families who lived
in these small towns
surrounding it, are--
They're intermarried between
the Native American population
and the Spanish and
Mexican population.
And you have people
who are mostly
living close to the land.
Farmers, shepherds and so forth.
And the US government--
the famous bar.
What is it, the Owl Cafe?
>>HARRIS: The bar.
>>REGINA: These little
kids would come and go,
and they get an ice cream
cone or some pop or something,
not knowing that these
men with briefcases
were people like Oppenheimer.
They were just the
background of life.
No one paid attention to them.
They served you.
And they weren't even worthy
of warning that this blast was
going to take place.
And I get upset when
I think about this.
>>VALLEE: And that
lasted 70 years.
And the reason the
subtitle of Trinity
is "The Best-Kept Secret"
is that the secret
was kept by the government,
by whoever in the Pentagon
was running this.
And the secret was
kept by the witnesses.
>>REGINA: Yes
>>VALLEE: And that is unique.
We know about Roswell.
We know about other cases,
other crashes in New Mexico
that I've researched and so on.
I knew nothing about this.
And the UFO community,
so vaguely aware
that there had been
something there, but it
wasn't terribly important.
And there were a few
people who filmed the site,
and then they went on.
They went on to
Roswell, because Roswell
had much more documentation and
witnesses who spoke and so on.
What I couldn't understand when
I first was exposed to this is,
where were the witnesses
during all that time?
How come they didn't
show up anywhere?
Well, when you reconstruct the
history of what happened there,
the first atomic bomb in the
history of mankind, history
changed.
And that entire area
was a secret area,
and people were afraid.
They knew that you don't
talk about what you see.
You don't talk about
what you've done.
Even the people, their
fathers, their uncles
were hired as carpenters to work
on some of the structures that
held the bomb.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: But you go home,
you don't talk about that.
>>REGINA: And they never told
the people that they were going
to detonate this thing, and
what it could do to them
physically--
>>VALLEE: That's right.
>>REGINA: --which
it did to them.
>>VALLEE: That's right.
>>REGINA: And it affected
generations of them.
>>VALLEE: There were very heavy
decisions that were made there,
that people regretted before--
regretted after the explosion.
But they just didn't
have the science.
They didn't know how powerful
the bomb was going to be.
The bomb turned out to be four
times more powerful than all
the calculations they had made.
They didn't even know
if a bomb would work.
Many experts said, this
bomb will never work.
You can't do it.
So part of what I try to do--
many people do this research
by, you rush to the scene,
you record what the witnesses
have said, and then you go home
and you write something.
And that's fine.
At least it gets
into the literature.
If you want to do
a good job, you
should know what happened
before the sighting, what
happened after.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>VALLEE: Why did the
witness behave this way?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: Why did they use
certain words rather than
certain other words?
>>REGINA: Why did this
craft show up one week
after that atomic
blast in that area?
>>VALLEE: Yes.
What does the
landscape tell you?
>>REGINA: What were
they looking for?
>>VALLEE: So I spent some
time, every time we went there,
alone, walking around,
letting the landscape tell me
what the history was there.
Both the geological history,
which is amazing in New Mexico,
of course.
But also, the tribes.
Which is why on the cover, we
didn't want to put Enrico Fermi
and Oppenheimer.
>>REGINA: No.
>>VALLEE: We wanted to
put the local people.
>>REGINA: These are the ones
who experienced all of it.
>>VALLEE: The young
kid with his horse.
>>REGINA: I love that picture.
>>VALLEE: And Mama
Grande, who is
grandmother who was a leader
of the Apache in the area.
Now, those were the
people who were there.
Yes, the scientists were
there for four years,
and then they went
back to Chicago.
They went back to teaching.
Or they went to Los Alamos.
But what about the local people?
What did they see and
what did they experience?
>>REGINA: And that was really--
you wrote so
beautifully in this book
about what happened that day.
And the fact that you and Paola
did go back to Ground Zero,
in this horrid, eerie
feeling, in this plaque
at the entrance of
it, which Oppenheimer
is on video saying himself.
This is really critical,
because as I-- it
breaks my heart every
time I go back and watch
that piece on YouTube of
what he had to say afterward.
"I am now the destructor of--
the destroyer of worlds."
And it appears he's crying
when he's saying it.
There was so much, I think,
regret and shame around what
we had unleashed on humankind.
And other cultures from other
places or other dimensions
have every reason
to be concerned,
because we can shoot that
stuff out there, too.
And so they began coming
to military installations
in droves.
These events, these
sightings, these crashes.
So let's go back to Reme.
Let's just pick it up there,
unless you have something
you want to say about
Ground Zero first
and how it felt being there.
>>VALLEE: Well, that was--
there were a few
funny coincidences,
if you want to call them
coincidences in this research.
I was having breakfast.
I had gotten up early.
I was waiting for Paola
and another researcher who
came with her.
And there was a newspaper there.
And I pick up the
newspaper and it
says there is going
to be a demonstration
on the way to Ground Zero.
And I thought, these
people are crazy.
They want to do a
political demonstration
in the middle of a desert.
Nobody's going to bother.
They are by the side
of an expressway.
Nobody-- who is going to stop?
Except that that was the one
time when the base was open.
The Ground Zero is
open twice a year,
where visitors can come in.
And there are
thousands of cars that
are going to take that turn.
>>REGINA: Including unmarked
black cars, dignitaries,
as I recall when I read--
that's what I read in your book,
right?
Yeah.
>>VALLEE: So we decided, instead
of going to the site that day,
we were going to visit the
place where the explosion had
been detonated.
And there are
several things that--
if you pay attention,
there are several things
that begin to take over
your consciousness.
Consciousness is a loaded word,
but you can't-- you're driving
10 or 12 miles after you've
passed the turn point,
all the way to the gate itself.
And you realize after
a while that the desert
isn't the way it should be.
>>REGINA: No.
It's like a wasteland.
>>VALLEE: The plants
are very, very small.
They are, in fact, dying.
This is how many years
since the explosion?
You can tell that the
Earth has been damaged
by what happened
there, and that it
has retained the memory of it.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: And of
course, the people.
They-- because it
had to be so secret.
And it's easy to
blame the scientists.
It's easy to blame the army.
They didn't know what
was going to happen.
This was a revolution
in science.
Many people didn't
think it would work.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: It did work.
>>VALLEE: They arguably--
the thing was, we need
to stop the war in the Pacific.
We need to stop
the war in Japan.
The war in Europe had come to
an end with Germany and so on.
The war in Japan was
at a very high point,
where the estimates were that
over a million people would
die in a few months.
>>REGINA: Yes, a million more.
And just to add
this in, Jacques.
As a little boy,
you were exposed
to World War II and death.
You didn't have to
see it close up,
but you saw the bombs
dropping, the people fleeing,
everyone hiding, and living in
a very challenging condition
during that war.
So you knew the impact of war.
>>VALLEE: Well, but the
little town where I was born
happened to be a lock on
the main road between Paris
and Normandy.
So you can imagine
that everybody
wanted to use that
road and the railroads.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: The Germans first,
to reinforce Normandy.
And then the Allies, America
and Great Britain, essentially,
needed to destroy those bridges.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: And the town
was bombed 18 times
when I was there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: And by the
time you're four or five,
you understand what's going on.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: And--
>>REGINA: So the horrors of war
were imprinted upon you very
deeply from a very early age.
>>VALLEE: I was in the middle--
>>REGINA: So you could
resonate in all of that.
>>HARRIS: --of the war.
>>REGINA: Right.
So--
>>VALLEE: But there was no
atomic bomb in Europe, ever.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: OK?
There were two atomic
bombs in Japan.
But the bomb that
exploded at Ground Zero
in New Mexico did
more damage, was
more powerful than the bomb
that destroyed Nagasaki.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: The reason is
that they blew up the bomb,
and they call it a test.
In physics, a test is
you take a little vial
and you do-- you
mix and you verify
the equation and the thing.
And then if it works,
you go up in scale.
You go to an industrial process.
Here, they started
from a full-scale bomb.
It wasn't a test.
It was a test in
the sense that it
was the first time they did it.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>VALLEE: But it was
equivalent in power
to the Nagasaki plutonium
bomb, and they exploded it
at Ground Zero.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>VALLEE: And in Nagasaki--
once I realized the damage that
they had done to New Mexico,
in Nagasaki.
They reset the bomb so
that it would explode--
>>REGINA: Higher.
>>VALLEE: --higher.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>VALLEE: So that there
wouldn't be so much
radioactivity at ground level.
>>REGINA: How awful.
[LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: Those are the
things that I learned in doing
the research--
>>REGINA: I know.
It's like--
>>VALLEE: --with Paola.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
I guess you could say
that was a silver lining.
It could have even been worse.
>>HARRIS: But in a way, I wanted
to add that this book, yes it
has a UFO in it.
But it is a historical book.
>>REGINA: Oh, it's an--
I highly recommend
people read this for a--
>>HARRIS: It really needs
to be in libraries--
>>REGINA: It does, yes.
>>HARRIS: --that have
social studies and history.
Because the incredible
research that Jacques did,
it starts out with the
diary of Laura Fermi.
Her husband, Enrico
Fermi, was there and was--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: And-- but the fact
that we had a historical event,
and a UFO come in
a month later--
>>REGINA: Not coincidentally.
>>HARRIS: It's not coincidence.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And excuse me.
I think I said a week earlier.
A month later, yes.
>>HARRIS: Yeah, a month later.
>>REGINA: So let's talk--
OK.
Now, let's get to the
story and the boys.
So the family.
A, they were affected
by the blast.
The mother went
blind in one eye.
One of them went
blind temporarily,
had bleeding out of the ears.
They did have future
defects in their children.
So they were never
warned by the government.
They were affected by the
radiation of that blast,
and by the sheer
light of the blast.
Now, it's a month later.
The kids are out
riding the fences,
because they're cattle ranchers.
And they have
binoculars with them,
because you've got to be
able to read the brands
on the cattle along the fences.
So they might only be seven
and nine years old, but great
powers of observation,
because that's their job
and they'll get in
trouble by their dad
if they don't do it right.
[LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: And they
knew the territory.
>>REGINA: And they
>>VALLEE: And they
were on horseback,
so they could quickly
go to any place.
They also drove the truck,
because all the adults
were at war.
The kids had to take over.
>>REGINA: You might
have been short,
but if you could see out the
window, that's all you need.
>>VALLEE: Yes, that's right.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Little Jose.
>>VALLEE: So that
case is incredible,
because as opposed to Roswell,
as opposed to many other cases,
the kids were there
before the UFO came in.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: They saw it come
over their head and crash.
It bumped into a communication
tower, bent part of the tower.
It didn't explode.
An airplane would have blown
into pieces at that point.
The craft kept its integrity.
There was one panel
that was ejected,
and they found the
material later.
And they kept it, which to a
physicist, is very interesting.
>>REGINA: We're going
to get into this
and all-- we're going to get
into all kinds of fun stuff.
>>VALLEE: But they saw it--
>>REGINA: Angel hair.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VALLEE: And then
they had access
to-- they saw what the army did
when they came in eventually.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: For nine days,
the kids were there.
>>REGINA: They were sneaky
and they were short,
and they could go in
and they knew the brush.
They knew where they could hide.
They could watch everything.
And when they went home
at the end of the day,
they would sneak down
there and get stuff.
So this is an amazing story.
OK, let's talk
about what they had
to say about the experience
of-- after it crashed,
there were a couple
of things going on.
They saw little
funny-looking occupants.
And I don't remember the Spanish
name for the cricket head
people.
>>VALLEE: [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>REGINA: [SPEAKING SPANISH].
They were explaining insects.
They had--
>>VALLEE: Little men.
>>REGINA: Little men with kind
of insect-y looking heads.
>>VALLEE: Well, I had
the privilege of working,
when I started
reconstructing the story
and doing working on the book,
of working from the transcripts
that Paola had already
done with both witnesses,
including the one
who had passed away.
What fascinated me was looking
at every word and every comma.
You could see their emotions.
You could see when
things changed.
Sometimes they call them men.
Sometimes they call
them little men.
>>REGINA: Little men, uh-huh.
>>VALLEE: Sometimes
they talk about them
as if they were
insects, or they were--
so Paola can describe it.
>>REGINA: They did have very--
yes.
Paola, tell us how they saw
their faces, because it was--
>>HARRIS: Well, I think--
>>REGINA: From the
binoculars, by the way,
from a couple
hundred yards away.
>>HARRIS: Let's add by saying
that there were no flying
saucer magazines.
Kenneth Arnold hadn't come
out with that word yet.
There was no television.
There was no YouTube.
So these kids had no--
>>REGINA: There was no context.
There was no context to what
>>HARRIS: They were looking at,
and it was not a flying saucer.
It was an avocado-shaped craft.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: And so when the
little kids went up to see it,
and they could see the beings
that were floating back
and forth--
>>REGINA: Well, this is
key what you just said.
They weren't walking.
They appeared to be kind of
just moving and floating.
>>HARRIS: They were
floating back and forth.
And they heard the sounds.
Jose in particular,
the older boy,
thought that they
were in trouble,
that they had been hurt.
So his feelings, they
had-- and Jacques
had mentioned the
psychic connection
between-- because they
watched them for over an hour
with the binoculars.
So the psych-- the
connection they had.
And Jose's wanting to
go in and help them,
because they were hurt.
And they were making
this high-pitched sound,
which is so unusual.
And then Reme being the younger
one, and was started to cry.
But you can understand,
because it was a lot of smoke,
and the mesquite was all
burning, and he was scared.
And this contact--
>>REGINA: This
emotion, though, thing.
When I started reading about
the emotion part of it,
my mind flashback to Clifford
Stone, when Clifford Stone was
initially going on
his investigations
on behalf of the military--
>>HARRIS: The recovery, yeah.
>>REGINA: The recovery.
He said he would become over--
throughout his life, overwhelmed
with emotions of what
these creatures that he saw--
>>HARRIS: They were
able to transmit--
>>REGINA: --were
trying to say to him.
>>HARRIS: They're transmitting--
>>REGINA: We're in trouble.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
And this is the same thing
the boys were going away with,
is this feeling of empathy and
sympathy and great emotion,
which we don't hear in
these stories often.
>>HARRIS: Yeah, which
is not done verbally.
It's done from the contact--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: --from these--
>>REGINA: More telepathically.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
Yeah, and you know when
you're talking to little kids,
because there's so many
different stories where
little children, like the
African case and so forth,
have had contact with beings,
that the little kids aren't
making this up.
>>REGINA: No.
>>HARRIS: They're reliving it.
They're very honest.
And in the case of
Jose, maybe Jacques
would like to talk about this.
He has a photographic memory.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: He'll tell you the
day that this happened, right?
He was an amazing witness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: Well,
we would come up,
and you can see that
in your transcripts,
when was the tower taken out?
And he will go '45,
'48, '54, and '86.
It was taken out in '86.
His mind goes like a computer.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>VALLEE: Clack, clack,
clack, clack, clack.
>>REGINA: It was a perfect
job to be riding the rails
and looking at brands and
counting, counting cattle head.
>>VALLEE: Well, some of it--
it's almost
unbelievable from where
we stand of what they did.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: And then you have
to remember, we asked--
they were talking about
getting a souvenir.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: That's appropriate.
>>VALLEE: Getting a souvenir.
And then they--
I think it was
Reme who explained
to Paola that in those days,
your father might not come back
from the front.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: You might
lose an uncle.
You might lose a relative.
You might-- so
souvenirs for families
were very important you would
save things that reminded you
of that person.
So this was the end of the war.
Many people did not come back.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: And so
to them, you have
to go back to that
context, which
is relatively easy for me,
because I remember World War
II.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: OK?
Which was, of
course, an intense--
>>REGINA: You would have been
going for souvenirs yourself.
>>VALLEE: We didn't
have any souvenirs,
because the first house where
my parents had all their books
and so on burned
down completely.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: So they
restarted, essentially,
with furniture that was
borrowed from relatives.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: That's how I grew up.
>>REGINA: And so that's how
these boys were living, yeah.
>>VALLEE: So I could understand.
I could relate to what
these people were saying.
>>REGINA: So--
>>HARRIS: So that's
why people say, well,
how did that little
boy go in and--
which is Jose--
go in and borrow--
he keeps saying, I
didn't steal anything.
I didn't.
That was--
>>REGINA: Well,
he had something.
What did he call it?
A crowbar, basically.
>>HARRIS: He had a crowbar,
because he couldn't pull it
off--
the bracket inside
was on a plaque.
>>REGINA: Inside is this
smooth, curved walls.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
It was on a plaque that
had a copper circle.
And this piece
was in the middle.
And we still don't know--
this is Jacques's job as a
scientist to go into the piece.
But to pull it off, he had to
get a crowbar to pull it off.
And then the pin fell on
the ground and he took it.
And they went and they had
to hide it, because there
was inventory taken.
And when that piece from the
inside of the craft is missing,
the army is not happy.
>>REGINA: Because we have
to re-establish, again,
that the army did not come and
take that away for what was it,
nine days?
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So the boys knew
where it was and had access.
His father knew where it was.
>>HARRIS: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Another one
of the town constables
knew where it was.
>>VALLEE: So three people--
that's another thing that's
unique about-- out of the 10
things that we've listed that
are unique about this case,
in all of UFO history,
there are three people who
actually went into the craft.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: On the second day,
or actually, the third day,
the father--
the kids reported to
their family right away.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it was his father.
>>VALLEE: They still
thought that it was probably
some aircraft.
There were lots of aircraft
that were damaged, so--
>>REGINA: Experimental stuff
going on out there, too.
>>VALLEE: Experimental
things, also.
So they-- the father and a
policemen, a state policemen--
>>HARRIS: Yeah, Sheriff
Apodaca went inside together.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: And then
on the last day,
when the soldiers were relaxed,
because the thing was loaded
on the truck, ready to
go back to White Sands,
they decided to go in.
And Jose Padilla went in
and looked for a souvenir.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I love that he had the--
>>VALLEE: So it's
an incredible story.
>>REGINA: I just,
I love this story.
>>VALLEE: There is no
other case like it.
>>REGINA: No, there isn't.
This is an incredible--
>>VALLEE: This is
not an abduction, OK?
>>REGINA: No.
>>VALLEE: They walked
into the craft.
>>REGINA: No, absolutely.
OK, so they went in.
So now we have this.
And it's something where
the local people knew,
you don't tangle too
much with the government.
Don't give them too
much information.
They're living their lives.
You're trying to live yours.
So there's another piece of this
that I found just absolutely
fascinating, and kind of
a fun way of phenomena.
And that was, was it
a cousin of theirs?
So the name of the souvenir--
souvenir in Spanish
is "tesoro," right?
>>HARRIS: Yeah, "tesoro."
>>REGINA: So they had the--
>>VALLEE: "Tesoro"
means treasure.
>>REGINA: Treasure.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: They had their
treasure, their "tesoro"
that they had hidden away.
And they're wily enough
to know, military
were coming around
asking questions.
They put it under the
floorboard of a shed.
Now, refresh my memory.
There is a cousin, I think
it was, who was a shepherd.
And I think he was in that shed.
Was he sleeping in that
shed when three little--
>>HARRIS: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Three little--
>>VALLEE: It wasn't a cousin.
It was a man they hired to
take care of the cattle--
>>HARRIS: The sheep.
>>REGINA: The sheep, yeah.
>>VALLEE: --when it
was going to be sold.
>>REGINA: OK.
So this man's in there.
And in your book--
>>VALLEE: He's an employee.
>>REGINA: He was-- it
scared the bejesus out him--
>>HARRIS: OK, that's--
>>REGINA: --that
three little beings
seemed to show up in his
room asking for the "tesoro."
>>HARRIS: They came
through the wall.
And actually, he went to-- he
was hired by the Baca family.
And he came over and he said,
I think I have to leave here,
because three little men
came in through the--
>>REGINA: Came through my walls.
>>HARRIS: Looking
for the "tesoro."
Which presents a
problem for Jacques
and me, because we both,
I think, thought it was--
>>REGINA: He didn't
know about the "tesoro."
>>HARRIS: Yeah,
but we thought it
was terrestrial, the bracket.
We tend to believe that.
So if that's the case,
and this is really true--
>>REGINA: We're just putting
it all out there, Paola.
>>HARRIS: If this is true,
this is terrestrial piece,
then why is the testimony of
the sheepherder saying that
the beings are coming
in looking for that--
>>REGINA: For the "tesoro."
>>HARRIS: Why wouldn't there--
>>REGINA: Using their
language telepathically.
>>HARRIS: Yes, yeah.
Why--
>>REGINA: We'll let that
may remain a mystery,
because it's--
>>HARRIS: Because
that is a mystery.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: If it
belongs to the army,
and we tended to believe
that was the case,
then why did this
testimony say this?
And he's not making it.
>>REGINA: OK.
I have an idea for you both.
Maybe it was the ET's "tesoro"
that they'd picked up on a trip
and hammered into
their own walls.
[LAUGHTER]
Maybe you stole their "tesoro."
It was ours to put on the walls.
>>VALLEE: Sometimes
I think it would
be an interesting day in
court if the government wanted
to claim it.
Because I have it now, OK?
And we're studying it,
with my colleagues.
It's not in my house, but--
>>REGINA: So don't go looking
for your address, anybody.
>>VALLEE: We're going to pass
it out to different teams.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: Metallurgists,
space people, and so on.
It looks like a perfectly
ordinary piece of a bracket
you might have in a rotating
machine on a farm or--
except that it's all
in metric system.
>>REGINA: Which we didn't have.
>>VALLEE: Who was
using the metric system
in New Mexico in 1945?
>>REGINA: No one.
>>VALLEE: OK.
It doesn't have a brand.
It's something-- it's
pretty crude, something
that you might
mold it in college
in the lab for
particular experiments.
So you wouldn't bother
to put a brand on it.
So it looks like an
industrial part, but it isn't.
What was it doing inside a UFO?
So my theory, and I'm--
we get into heated
arguments in Silicon Valley.
>>REGINA: Because it hasn't been
settled as science quite yet,
maybe?
It's still being examined?
>>VALLEE: Well,
my feeling is, it
looks like an ordinary
bracket that you
could get from farm equipment.
So maybe the army improvised.
You remember, they are a
long way from electricity,
a long way from power.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: They may generate
the power on the Jeeps
or on the trucks, and then
use it to do whatever they
need to do inside this object.
So they need power.
They bring a cable, and you need
something to wrap up the cable.
This would be perfect to wrap up
a cable or do something that--
>>REGINA: But what
about the fact it
was on this copper plate
inside, fixed to the wall,
and everything fit
perfectly, and metrics?
How do--
>>VALLEE: Well, but that's
the only thing inside.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: It's something that
the army could have improvised,
could have done there.
>>REGINA: Done something with.
>>VALLEE: The engineers so that
the army could have done that.
>>REGINA: So that's
your hypothesis now.
>>VALLEE: That was my
initial working hypothesis,
because it looks human.
It looks very crude.
It looks like an industrial
part you could buy.
>>REGINA: Right.
it is very simple.
>>VALLEE: You get on eBay,
you can buy things like that.
>>REGINA: And now,
Paola-- and you guys
have been in heated
arguments over this, right?
Because you want to--
>>VALLEE: Well--
>>HARRIS: No, no.
We tend to agree
that it could be.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: But then these
things keep cropping up,
like the metric system,
and the beings coming
through the wall looking for
it, and other things that
are cropping up in
the-- and so we have
to keep changing our minds.
>>REGINA: Well, you
just have to stay open.
>>VALLEE: And the army
coming back, looking for it.
>>REGINA: The army came back.
>>VALLEE: Twice.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we're going to--
because we have so much more
to talk about, we could just
talk about this piece all day,
this bracket.
Now, let's talk about
the other things
that were found, because
the boys were very, very
resourceful and filled up
a gunny sack full of what
they call "angel hair."
Which becomes very interesting
when the third witness later,
in years later--
>>HARRIS: Sabrina Padilla.
>>REGINA: Sabrina Padilla
is playing with it.
So they get this translucent
stuff that's very--
>>HARRIS: That's all
lit up, in colors.
>>REGINA: It's all lit up.
It shines at night.
It's very pretty.
And the boys give it to people
to put on Christmas trees
and in their windows and--
>>VALLEE: Of course.
>>REGINA: It's pretty.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VALLEE: That's
what you do when
a UFO crashes in your backyard.
What do you do?
>>REGINA: Get the pretty stuff.
>>VALLEE: You take
the angel hair
and you put it on
the Christmas tree.
>>REGINA: Of course you do.
>>VALLEE: But that's what
anybody would do, right?
[LAUGHTER]
>>HARRIS: I can see
a movie of this book.
>>REGINA: This
has to be a movie.
>>HARRIS: And I can
see that it starts
with these kids
decorating a Christmas
tree with fiber optics.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>HARRIS: Thinking-- because
they don't know what it is.
>>REGINA: Oh, I've
got the other scene.
Then you have the cousin
testifying later, saying, yeah,
we used to play.
And it bit me.
It hurt my hand and bit me.
>>VALLEE: We should
stop them on the cousin,
because we were ready
to publish the book.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: We announced it
on the internet and so on.
And then Paola found Sabrina.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: And Sabrina
comes in at right angle
to every other-- she's
there several years later.
>>REGINA: Later.
>>VALLEE: She's
a seven-year-old.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: She essentially
comes to live with the family,
because that's the only
family she has at that point.
And she is there with her
eyes of a young child,
discovering all this.
And she is the one who
tells that story, including
some things that even
the first two witnesses--
>>REGINA: Didn't know.
>>VALLEE: --by
then, had moved on.
>>REGINA: Well,
they never mentioned
that it was giving
like electrical shocks.
It was my biting them.
>>HARRIS: And they never
mentioned the foil.
I think that because--
>>REGINA: And we're going to get
to the foil after angel hair.
>>HARRIS: Yeah, because--
>>VALLEE: So we stopped and
we restarted the research.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARRIS: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: Paola started--
restarted the research
with Sabrina, and that added
the cherry on the cake,
essentially, at
the end of nailing
all of the previous
testimony together.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>HARRIS: And then--
>>REGINA: And it was fascin--
her testimony was so innocent.
>>HARRIS: Well, she
was tell-- and Jacques,
the first thing he said is,
we've got to go and meet her.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: So he
flew to Los Angeles.
She lives in Los Angeles.
And we sat in front of her, and
Jacques said, this is amazing.
It's because these are children.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: And these are
their direct recollections.
We have artifacts, then
we can talk about foil.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about the foil
now, because this
is fascinating.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So she said, oh, yeah.
They had this little piece
of foil that the boys got.
And they mentioned it, too.
It was-- one piece of foil
was used to fix, I think,
a windmill--
>>HARRIS: A windmill.
>>REGINA: --at one point.
But you use what you've got.
But she was saying,
she used to play
with this foil, which was very
thin and very, very light,
like a feather.
No weight.
And she would scrunch
it up in her hand.
And she thought
it was trick foil.
It was a joke foil.
Because when she'd open her
hand, it would pop back out
and be smooth again.
Right?
[LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: Yes.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that.
That would be called
memory metal today.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Something
like that, right?
>>VALLEE: And it was
speculated-- of course,
it showed up at Roswell
later, two years later.
And so the argument could
be said that people were
researching that kind of thing.
Battelle Memorial
Institute in Ohio
was a leader in
metallurgy, and they
were researching
that kind of metal
for aerospace applications.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: Aviation
and later, for space.
Battelle comes up again and
again in this whole history.
They would be certainly one of
the places where there would
have been greater awareness
of the entire UFO recovery
history.
>>REGINA: Are you saying "Dell"?
>>HARRIS: Battelle.
>>REGINA: Battelle.
>>VALLEE: Battelle.
>>HARRIS: Battelle.
>>REGINA: Battelle.
I just, I thought
I misheard you.
Battelle, yeah.
>>VALLEE: Battelle
is very interesting
>>REGINA: Battelle.
Yes, they are.
>>VALLEE: --scientific
institution.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: Still today.
Very active in
metallurgy applied
to space and high-powered
flight and everything else.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: But in 1947,
you could say, well,
there were prototypes of
strange metals, new alloys.
There was all that
research going on.
1945, well, maybe
in a lab somewhere.
But you wouldn't
expect to have--
>>REGINA: Lying
around in the desert,
next to an avocado-shaped craft.
>>VALLEE: Yeah, to
shower the landscape
with this extraordinary metal.
>>REGINA: Was it thought
that it was molten,
because there was high heat?
That it might have
been in a molten state
initially and settled
into this veneer?
>>HARRIS: No, I think--
>>REGINA: Or did it come--
was it that way?
>>HARRIS: I think
what happened--
and this is amazing, because
Jose did not know that there
were long strips of this metal.
Because all they found was
a little square that they
fixed the windmill with.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HARRIS: So Jose didn't know
the testimony of Sabrina.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: He was shocked because
that means the father went
back there on his own.
>>REGINA: And he got some.
>>HARRIS: And he went and
got some stuff that he never
told his son about.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: So the father,
who was riding the horse,
found these strips of metal.
Never told the son,
never told Jose.
But then Jose had left for the
Korean War at the age of 17.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HARRIS: So Sabrina is
playing with other materials
that the father
went back to get.
And I don't know if
you noticed, but she
kept telling us that
the soldiers kept
coming back to their
farmhouse, in the back door.
And the father said--
>>REGINA: OK, that's
important to point out.
>>HARRIS: The army
would come back.
>>REGINA: This
happened on their land.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: The military
had to get permission
to build a road and gate on
their land to come and retrieve
this thing.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
The weather balloon.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: The weather balloon.
>>REGINA: The "weather balloon."
>>HARRIS: The weather balloon.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VALLEE: The 10-ton
weather balloon.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the
10-ton weather balloon.
[LAUGHTER]
>>HARRIS: The weather balloon
that they couldn't get out
of the gate there.
And the irony is, and
Jacques and I laugh over
a lot of this stuff, the
father was very honest.
He said, you want
the weather balloons
that we picked up already?
Do you want them back?
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>HARRIS: Do you want the
weather balloons back?
>>REGINA: Because they had
had the weather balloon
debris around.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, actual
weather ball-- not this.
Actual weather balloon.
>>VALLEE: Well, the
property's 80,000 acres.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: So how many
weather balloons--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: The army was launching
weather balloons all day long
because of White Sands.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: And--
>>REGINA: So they had
little pieces of that.
They go, we'll give
them back to you.
But that's nothing to do with
the avocado in our backyard.
[LAUGHTER]
So the kids are going,
the father's going.
This comes in at
the last minute.
Sabrina comes in
at the last minute,
before you finish
the book, which--
>>HARRIS: In the 1950s.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
This was incredible.
>>HARRIS: The 1950s, right?
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so
what do you think
that this pinkish, luminescent,
angel hair, spaghetti
stuff that they put on
their Christmas trees
and that stung when
she touched it,
bit her when she
touched it, what do
you think that might have been?
>>VALLEE: We don't know.
But one of the most
interesting things
is that she talks about the heat
being transmitted through that.
So that you could apply it
to your skin when it was hot.
And I can testify,
it gets really
hot in New Mexico in
the middle of August,
because I've been there.
And you could put it to your
skin and it would stay cool.
>>REGINA: That metal,
that memory metal.
Yes, it didn't--
>>VALLEE: The metal
would not warm up.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>VALLEE: OK?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: So my
physicist friends--
>>REGINA: So she'd
put it on her cheeks,
because it felt cool in
the middle of the summer.
>>VALLEE: Yes.
My physics friends are very,
very interested in that.
How can you do that?
Why would they
transmit heat that way,
rather than warming
up the metal?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: And what
is the structure?
What is the fine structure
of that substance?
>>HARRIS: But you were, I think,
referring to the fiber optics,
the--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Thank you for the metals,
because we needed that part,
too.
But--
>>HARRIS: Yeah, the--
>>REGINA: The angel hair.
>>HARRIS: It might be--
the angel hair might
be fiber optics.
It might be a type
of fiber optic.
And whatever it was, they
collected 10-pound bag of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, now let's move forward.
Because when you're
talking about fiber optics,
according to Philip Corso--
>>HARRIS: Corso, yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: The same thing
comes into play here.
>>HARRIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And in
this story, there's
another metal filing cabinet
in the military where stuff
is unpacked and looked at with
the intention of examining
and perhaps reverse engineering.
So I want to get to that
part of the story now.
So with all of this, and there's
so much more-- and Paola,
you did such a
good job out there,
because you were treating
them with such respect
and what they
deserved, rather than
the military coming around and
bullying them and overlooking
them.
Calling them out.
They're just a couple
Indian kids there.
Who cares?
They didn't see anything.
They're not-- they didn't
matter to anyone's life.
And it turns out, they
mattered the most.
So now we're past that part.
And I really recommend people
pick it up and read it.
I love this story.
I was glued to it.
Now let's go to your
feelings on the implications.
They took this away.
They took some of
probably the angel hair
and the metals and such away.
You have the bracket.
You got it from Reme.
You've got it now.
And it's somewhere else, so
don't go looking in your homes.
What do you think the state
of military back engineering
of this kind of
captured technology--
what state is it really in?
How much do you think has really
come of it through the years?
>>VALLEE: I'm glad you asked
that, because that's really
the key question.
If Congress really wants to
ask a question, which I'm not
sure they do, but if they
want to ask a question,
the key question is, how
much longer are we going
to keep this beyond top secret?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: Beyond.
And I've worked
along in my career,
both in science and
in venture capital
and so on with people
who had high clearances.
They didn't know
anything about this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: Why?
Well, because they had
the wrong clearances.
There are three different
systems of clearances
in the US government.
One system goes to
the president through
the appropriate agencies.
One system is
foreign intelligence,
which only goes to
the State Department
and to the diplomatic services,
and gets properly reported,
if there is a need to, to
the level of the executive.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>VALLEE: And then there
are the atomic clearances,
which are completely separate.
>>REGINA: Those are the highest
clearances, aren't they?
Or--
>>VALLEE: No, there are
very high clearances
in all three systems.
>>REGINA: Well, I guess
you would be at all levels.
Sure, yeah.
>>VALLEE: There
are clearances that
are so exquisite that only a few
people have the right to know.
Because having a
clearance doesn't give you
the right to know, so
you have to have both.
You have to carry the
card, and then somebody
has to decide that
you should know
about this particular
secret that you're already
cleared for.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: You have
the ticket, OK?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: But they won't
necessarily tell you.
And you might not-- the
code word might not be open,
might not be available.
On the atomic side,
which this is,
there are clearances
called R, P, and Q.
You know minding
your P's and Q's?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: That are
the atomic secrets.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: And those
would be the secrets
that people had at Los Alamos,
the secrets that are still
in existence about the
atomic bomb and about
the nuclear developments.
Those go through a
completely separate channel,
and they don't go to the
White House, unless there
is a need at that particular
point in current affairs
or in history for that to be
presented to the executive.
Because otherwise, you cannot--
number, one you cannot have a
lot of people knowing about it.
And also, the people
would not know
under what circumstances
this should
get the attention of the White
House and of the executive.
So there are-- all those
things are appropriate,
appropriate, boundaries
to the secret.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I was going to try
to find, in fact,
a quote on exactly this,
that you put in the book.
And I thought I had written
the page down, but I hadn't.
But I remember,
basically, what it says.
And it says, you
have to remember
that these same documents are
going to be analyzed and taken
to the same people who have
covered this up for the last 75
years.
And they can spin it
any way they want.
>>VALLEE: Yes.
>>REGINA: Same dossiers go to
the same agencies, and it's--
when does this end?
>>VALLEE: And I don't have--
I am not a whistleblower.
I'm not.
I'm a very
disciplined scientist.
>>REGINA: Yes, you are.
>>VALLEE: People
will tell you I am.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yeah, you're not a
conspiracy theorist.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VALLEE: That's why
I'm in Silicon Valley
and I work with teams.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: I love to
be a team member.
I know what I can bring, and
I know what I don't know.
But the problem with--
and the secrecy
probably was appropriate
during the Cold War, OK?
It had to be in somebody's
basement in some out-of-the-way
place nobody talks about it.
But we've emerged from that.
We're in a different era now.
We're in an era
of where the Earth
itself is in trouble,
all over the place.
We need cooperation, and we need
to get the scientific community
involved.
>>REGINA: We need clean,
effective technology and energy
production, just to start.
>>VALLEE: Well, with
secret technology,
if you find, say, a prototype
from China somewhere,
suppose that Tic Tacs are
from China and we get one.
We catch one.
It's going to be
taken apart, and it's
going to be given to different
teams and different companies.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: Lucky, Boeing, and IT.
IBM will look at
different things.
The people looking
at the control system
are not the people who are
going to look at the propulsion.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>VALLEE: And they may not
know that the other labs exist,
and that's the way it has to
be to preserve the secrets.
It's compartmentalization
is and--
>>REGINA: But when is it ready?
When does it no longer
need to be secret?
>>VALLEE: But you're
not going to find out
what it does until these
people can talk to each other.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>VALLEE: But there are--
it's illegal for them
to talk to each other.
>>REGINA: [SIGHS]
>>HARRIS: [LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: We need to stop that.
>>REGINA: We need to stop it.
>>VALLEE: Somebody in Washington
needs to say, enough of that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: The scientific
community knows.
We think scientists
are skeptics and so on.
That's not true.
If you go to the
right level, you'll
have a very interesting
conversation about UFOs.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>VALLEE: OK?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: And you'll find that
people have educated themselves
about it, and that they have
the same questions we're
discussing here, between us.
And have no problem in Silicon
Valley recruiting people
to come look at
this bracket, OK?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
[LAUGHTER]
They wanted to see the bracket.
>>VALLEE: When you
put it on the table,
and everybody has a
different opinion.
And that's where we start from.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>VALLEE: Again, Federico Faggin
saying, if we stop doing this,
we might as well
disband Silicon Valley.
Everybody goes home.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Well, you two have done
such a beautiful job
constructing this.
And as we say, the science
may not be settled.
It may be continuing.
The exploration is
going to continue.
And what you said, is
absolutely critical.
That if we can't start
allowing these entities to talk
to one another, and to
reveal what we really have,
and what the potential
for humanity,
for our Earth is,
then what's the point?
It's getting-- to
this point, it's
becoming gratuitous to
keep it a secret anymore.
And I'm just so grateful
that you two came together
to do this, because there's
so much heart and warmth.
And I have to tell you, for a
techie scientist kind of guy,
what an elegant,
beautiful writer you are.
>>HARRIS: He is.
He is.
He actually--
>>REGINA: A stunning writer.
And this is your
second language.
>>HARRIS: Yes!
[LAUGHTER]
This is--
>>REGINA: I am so impressed.
So anyway, I highly
recommend it.
>>HARRIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: A quick question.
First of all, did you like
the treatment of yourself
as a character in "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind"?
>>VALLEE: Well--
>>REGINA: Were you OK with it?
>>VALLEE: Um--
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Sorry to
put you on the spot.
>>VALLEE: It was-- I have a lot
of respect for Mr. Spielberg
and what he did.
He's the only-- really,
the only one in Hollywood
who understood the
human aspect of this.
It's not just technology.
>>REGINA: No, it's human.
>>VALLEE: Something shows up.
We get afraid.
We start shooting it.
The usual shoot
'em up alien film.
He understood what
was behind it.
And the idea of getting
Francois Truffaut was--
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>VALLEE: --was--
>>REGINA: It was--
I love it.
>>VALLEE: I have
a lot of respect,
coming from France,
for his movies.
>>REGINA: I love it.
I thought it was wonderful.
>>VALLEE: And there
is a sense of humor.
One thing I'm very proud of
is that the sequence where
they steal the globe
from the-- well,
that that's something that's
an anecdote that I told
Spielberg when we had lunch
one day, about something
that happened when
Sputnik was launched.
There was-- nobody had a
computer program in the US
to compute an orbit of a
satellite of the Earth.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: You could
compute an orbit
of the satellite of
Jupiter or something
like that, but not of the Earth.
So they had to take a globe
and put a piece of string
around the globe to
see where the Sputnik
1 was going to go next.
And Dr. Hynek was
involved in that.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>VALLEE: And he
had the picture.
And I told that
story to Spielberg.
And he said, that's it.
That's it.
They say, we've got a billion
dollars worth of technology
here.
It's all secret.
It's all classified.
And nobody has a map of Wyoming?
[LAUGHTER]
And get me a map of Wyoming.
And they steal that globe.
That whole thing was one of the
funny parts in the movie, so--
>>REGINA: Oh, thank you
for sharing that with us.
>>VALLEE: So that was funny.
>>REGINA: I love it.
Well--
>>VALLEE: I never
got paid for that.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Well, that's OK.
You got paid in other ways, OK?
>>VALLEE: Yeah, but--
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: You get
to live with that.
>>VALLEE: No, that
was a lot of fun.
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
And--
>>VALLEE: And there is
a fun element in that.
There is a fun
element in learning.
And I'm still learning.
I didn't know much
about the history
of World War II in the Pacific.
And I knew the
history in Europe.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: I didn't know
the history in the Pacific,
and there are some
incredible, incredible things.
And they are not
teaching in schools.
>>REGINA: Not talked about.
No, they're not.
>>VALLEE: About the war,
the end of the war in Japan.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>VALLEE: And what
it did to Japan.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Another show.
>>VALLEE: And what it was.
>>REGINA: Another show.
[LAUGHTER]
And kudos to you for
continuing to learn every day,
every breath of your life.
I very much have a
deep respect for that.
And same for you,
Paola, to go out
with such passion and heart,
and go out and get these stories
and bring them to us.
And bringing people
together like this.
Anything final you would like
to say before we say goodbye?
>>HARRIS: Yes.
In the collaboration idea,
this is the first time
I've collaborated on anything.
And it's been a pleasure
collaborating with Jacques
on it.
And I learned so much, too,
because my job is basically
to get the witness testimony.
And his job is to call me and
ask me about an 18-wheeler.
[LAUGHTER]
And I'm going, OK.
Well, why do I have to do this?
And he goes, because
I have to calculate
how heavy that object was.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HARRIS: And so I learned a
lot from the collaboration.
And may I encourage
the other researchers
out there that do field research
to collaborate on cases.
>>REGINA: With one another.
>>HARRIS: With one another.
>>REGINA: It's like,
just as you say,
in the military
industrial complex
with all these technologies,
they need to start speaking.
So do you guys.
The UFO community needs
to start speaking and not
ridiculously guarding their
one little piece of the story.
It's not appropriate anymore.
>>VALLEE: Well, one thing
I learned along the way,
talking to the right people, is
that most reverse engineering
doesn't work.
Maybe 80% of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's why I asked
you that earlier.
>>VALLEE: We can't
figure out what
that is, that the Russians
did, or the Chinese did.
You get a piece of something
that fell from the sky,
and you find some gadget inside.
You don't know what
that thing does.
>>REGINA: And maybe
it's intended that way.
Maybe it was not-- it
was done in such a way
that there was no way, at
this point in our history,
until we get a little smarter,
wiser, and more collaborative,
to have it engineered.
So I can live with that mystery.
And I want to thank you both.
This has been just delightful.
I've so been looking forward
to it, and I so loved the book.
I was reading it like a novel.
[LAUGHS]
>>VALLEE: Well, obviously
you did your homework.
Your questions were right on.
>>REGINA: Why, thank you.
Thank you.
And I hope to see you both
again in the studio one
day, as is appropriate.
>>VALLEE: Any time.
>>HARRIS: Me, too.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>HARRIS: Thank you.
>>VALLEE: Thanks.
>>REGINA: Again, the
book is titled "Trinity--
The Best-Kept Secret," which
you can find through all
the normal booksellers.
It's a fascinating,
beautifully-written, reflective
study of where we are as a
species in our connection
with the UFO and ET phenomena.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]